
The '02EditDistFracDraftZdALLALL.png' shows the negative correlation of
the edit distance metric against the bag of words metric.

The x-axis is the edit distance fraction (that is, the quotient of the
edit distance divided by the maximum value of the edit distance on a
sentence-by-sentence basis). A dot with an x-value of 0.0 is a sentence
that is unchanged from draft to final. A dot with an x-value of 1.0
is a pair of sentences (one each from draft and final) that have been
aligned (if we carry through the alignment completely) that are in fact
totally different sentences.

The y-axis is the bag of words comparison fraction. The fraction is the
quotient of the sentence-by-sentence number of common significant words
in the draft and final divided by the number of significant words in
the draft. A dot with a y-value of 1.0 represents a sentence for which
all the significant words in the draft also appeared in the final.
A dot with a y-value of 0.0 represents a pair of sentence (one each
from draft and final) that have been aligned (if we carry through the
alignment completely) for which none of the significant words in the
draft appear in the final.

The top bar at y=1.0 comes from sentences for which the significant
words in the draft all appeared in the final, but the final sentence
had additional words, or the same words in a different order (hence
the positive edit distance).
The bottom bar at y=0.0 comes from sentences for which no significant
words in the draft appeared in the final, and the sentences were
essentially different sentences.

CONCLUSION: Because the dots are strongly in a line from (0.0, 1.0)
down a line of slope -1 to (1.0, 0.0), we conclude that the two
metrics provide essentially the same discriminatory value. That is,
the use of "small edit distance fraction" as our measure of similarity
will provide roughly the same answers as would the use of "large
overlap of bags of significant words". 

Our scan by eye revealed that edit distance fraction larger than 0.5
and bag of words overlap less than 0.5 normally indicated that the
putatively-aligned sentences were in fact different sentences. For this
reason, we used these two values as a cutoff point for alignment.
A pair of sentences with an edit distance fraction larger than 0.5,
for example, were not aligned and were considered as inserted or as
deleted sentences.
 
